>> Zac: That's just a little general
outline about introduction to JavaScript
in WordPress.
Now, we don't have time today to get into
how to work with every core feature.
So, what we are gonna talk about
first is the process of what
WordPress calls enqueuing.
So, this is basically getting
your JavaScript into a theme and
you don't just put it in your footer and
hard code it.
You have to actually load
it through some PHP code.
So, we're gonna walk through the different
ways that you could do that,
some of the tricks around it, some of
the different things that you may or
may not know about with that.
And then, of course, we'll shift
from there to talk about plugins.
It's pretty much the same process but
it's just enough difference that it is
important to mention and of course,
when you have a plugin, you can run
JavaScript anywhere in the admin area.
So if you wanna plugin that
hijacks the edit pages,
and loads your own custom JavaScript,
you could do that.
Now in both of these examples, I'm not, we
don't have time today to teach JavaScript.
So, I'm going to give you code examples
that are already fully coded with
the JavaScript, and there'll just be some
core things missing or wrong with them.
And you'll have to go in do that.
And I pick things that or you mostly
likely to have to copy paste and
change next time, right?
So if you have one project and
then you're, I need to that again you're
gonna have to copy this block of code.
You are gonna have to put it here
change this three things and
then you can write the rest of it.
So all the examples today
are really built around that.
And I hope that, that's helpful.
I will say,
depending on your JavaScript level,
the examples do get more complex
as we go on, so you may end up
getting to a point where you're, I don't
know what is happening, but it's working.
And that's awesome, and you could
take these and play around with them.
And I hope that if you have
projects that explore this more,
that you'll be able to use those
as kind of jumping off points.
Then we gotta talk briefly about AJAX.
We're shifting away from relying so
heavy on AJAX in WordPress and
we're moving more to,
I guess you could still say it's AJAX.
But API driven AJAX, instead of custom
PHP functions that you're writing and
are returning a certain request.
But it's a little funky, so
we do have to look at it.
So we'll look at how to
do that in WordPress.
And that's gonna be kind
of where we break, so
this is what I'd call the more
traditional WordPress JavaScript.
And then we'll shift in the afternoon into
getting into the WordPress API driven
stuff and
that's kind of a more modern take on it.
So from there, excuse me, we'll look
at all of the different end points and
what comes up out of the box what
you may expect to see customized.
And then we'll go back to our themes and
plugins and we'll say okay if we're in
a theme or a plugin how can we pull an API
and use it just piecemeal or completely.
And then if we're
decoupled from WordPress so
if we're launching on a completely
different server somewhere else
nowhere connected to WordPress,
how do we pull in posts?
How do we pull in pages?
How do we authenticate and
save data and stuff like that.
So these last two projects, what we'll
be building is something that will
list all of our posts in JavaScript,
give us a single page view of them and
also allow us to log in and add posts,
edit posts and delete them.
So we're not rebuilding everything.
You're not gonna be able to edit
categories around featured images and
things like that but from this foundation
it should be a pretty good jumping off
point, especially if you have
some comfort with API's.